Tony, welcome to Talk Python To Me.
Thank you. Thanks for having me.
Fantastic to have you here.
It's going to be really fun to talk about serverless.
You know, the joke with the cloud is,
well, I know you call it the cloud,
but it's really just somebody else's computer.
But we're not even talking about computer.
We're just talking about functions.
Maybe it's someone else's function.
I don't know. We're going to find out.
Yeah, I actually, I saw a recent article about server-free
recently with somebody trying to move completely.
Because as you might know,
serverless doesn't mean actually no servers.
Of course, of course.
Server free.
All right.
So we could just get the thing to run
on the BitTorrent network.
Got it.
Okay.
I don't know.
We'll figure it out.
But it's going to be super fun.
And we're going to talk about your experience
working with serverless.
We'll talk about some of the choices
people have out there
and also some of the tools that we can use to do things like observe and test our serverless code.
For that, though, tell us a bit about yourself.
Sure.
So I'm actually a career changer.
So I worked in the cable industry for about 10 years and doing a lot of different things
from installing, knock out the door cable guy to working on more of the outside plant,
But it just at some point I was seeing limits of career path there.
And so my brother-in-law is a software engineer.
And I had already started kind of going back to school, finishing my degree.
And I was like, OK, well, maybe I should kind of look into this.
And so I took an intro to programming class.
It was in Python.
And that just kind of led me down this path.
So now for the past four years or so, I've been working professionally in the software world.
started out in a QA role at an IOT company and now yeah doing a lot of
serverless programming in Python these days second company now but they that
does some school bus safety products so interesting very cool yeah yep but a lot
of a lot of Python a lot of serverless mm-hmm well serverless and IOT feel like
they go pretty hand in hand.
Yes.
Yep.
Yeah.
Another thing is with,
with serverless is when you have very like spiky traffic,
like if you think about school buses that,
you know,
you have a lot coming on twice a day.
Exactly.
Like the 8 a.m.
shift and then the two 30 to three shift.
So yeah,
that's a really good use case for serverless is something,
something like that.
So.
Okay.
Are you enjoying doing the programming stuff instead of the cable stuff?
Absolutely.
I sometimes I live in Michigan, so I look outside and look at, you know, the snow coming down or these storms.
And yeah, I just yeah, I really some people like you don't miss being outside.
I'm like maybe every once in a while, but I can I can go walk outside on a nice day.
You can choose to go outside.
You're not ready to go outside in the sleet or rain.
Yeah.
Yeah, absolutely.
We just had a mega storm here and just the huge tall trees here in Oregon just fell left and right.
And there's in every direction that I look, there's a large tree on top of one of the houses of my neighbors.
Oh, man.
You know, maybe a house or two over.
But it just took out all the everything that was a cable in the air was taken out.
So it's just been a swarm of people who are out in 13 degree Fahrenheit, you know, negative nine Celsius weather.
And I'm thinking, you know, not really choosing to be out there today, probably.
Excellent.
Well, thanks for that introduction.
I guess maybe we could, a lot of people probably know what serverless is, but I'm sure there's
a lot who are not even really aware of what serverless programming is, right?
Let's talk about what's the idea, what's the zen of this?
Yeah.
So, yeah, I kind of made the joke that serverless doesn't mean there are no servers, but and there's hopefully I don't butcher it too much, but it's more like functions as a service.
There's other things that can be serverless, too, like there's serverless databases or a lot of different services that can be serverless, meaning you don't have to think about like how to operate them, how to think about scaling them up.
You don't have to spin up VMs or Kubernetes clusters or anything.
You don't have to think about that part.
It's just your code that goes into it.
And so, yeah, serverless functions are probably what people are most familiar with.
And that's, I'm sure, what we'll talk about most today.
But yeah, that's really the idea.
You don't have to manage the server.
Sure.
And that's a huge barrier.
I remember when I first started getting into web apps and programming and then another level when I got into Python because I had not done that much Linux work.
Getting stuff up running, it was really tricky.
And then having the concern of, is it secure?
How do I patch it?
How do I back it up?
How do I keep it going?
All of those things, they're non-trivial, right?
Right.
Yeah.
There's a lot to think about.
And if you like work at an organization, it's probably different everywhere you go to that.
They, you know, how they manage their servers and things.
So so putting some stuff in the cloud kind of bring some commonality to it, too.
Like you can you can learn how, you know, the Azure cloud or Google cloud or AWS, how those things work and kind of have some common ground to.
Yeah, for sure.
like having also feels more accessible to the developers in a larger group you know in the
sense that it's not a devops team that kind of right takes care of the servers or a production
engineers where you hand them your code it's a little closer to just i have a function and then
i get it up there and it continues to be the function you know yeah you and that is a different
mindset too you kind of see it all the way through from writing your code to deploying it uh uh yeah
with without maybe an entire devops team that you just kind of say here you go go deploy this so yeah
so in my world i mostly have virtual machines i've moved over to kind of a docker cluster i think i've
got 17 different things running in the docker cluster at the moment but both of those are
really different than serverless right yeah yeah so it's been working well for me but
when i think about serverless let me know if this is true it feels like you don't need to have as
much of a Linux or server or sort of an ops experience to create these things.
Yeah, I would say like you could probably get away with like almost none, right?
Like at the simplest form, like with like AWS, for instance, their Lambda functions,
you can, and that's the one I'm most familiar with.
So forgive me for using them as an example for everything.
there's a lot of different serverless options,
but you could go into the AWS console
and you could actually write your, you know,
Python code right in the console, deploy that.
They have function URLs now.
So you could actually have like,
I mean, within a matter of minutes,
you could have a serverless function set up.
And so.
Yeah.
AWS Lambda, right?
That's the one.
Yes.
Yep.
Lambda being, I guess, a simple function, right?
We have Lambdas in Python.
They can only be one line.
So I'm sure you can have more than one line in the AWS Lambda.
Yeah, there are limitations, though, with Lambda that are definitely some pain points that I ran into.
Oh, really?
Okay, what are some of the limitations?
Yeah, so package size is one.
So if you start thinking about all these like amazing packages on PyPI, you do have to start thinking about how many you're going to bring in.
So and I don't know the exact limits off the top of my head, but it's pretty quick Google search on their package size.
It might be like 50 megabytes zipped, but 250 when you decompress it to do a zip base.
And they do have containerized Lambda functions that go up to like a 10 gig limit.
So that helps.
But yeah, yeah, they those ones used to be less performant, but they're they're kind of catching up to where they're that was really on something called cold starts.
But they're they're getting, I think, pretty close to it not not being a very big difference whether you dockerize or zip these functions.
But, but yeah, so when you start just like pip installing everything, you've got to think about how to get that code into your function and how much it's going to bring in.
So, yeah, that definitely was a limitation that had to quickly learn.
Yeah, I guess it's probably trying to do pip install -r effectively.
Yeah.
And it's like, you know, you can't go overboard with this, right?
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah, when you start bringing in packages like, you know, maybe like some of the like scientific packages, you're definitely going to be hitting some size limits.
OK. And with the containerized ones, basically, you get probably give it a Docker file and a command to run in it.
And it can it can build those images before and then just execute and just do a Docker run.
Yeah, I think how those ones work is you store an image on their container registry, Amazon's ECR, I think.
And so then you kind of point it at that.
And yeah, it'll execute your handler function when the Lambda gets called.
Yeah, excellent.
Yeah, so out in the audience, Kim says, AWS does make a few packages available directly just by default in Lambda.
Yeah. Yep. So yeah, Bodo, which if you're dealing with AWS and Python, you're using the Bodo package. And yeah, that's included for you. So that's definitely helpful in any of their, you know, transitive dependencies would be there.
I think Boto used to even include like requests, but then I think they eventually dropped that with some like SSL stuff.
But yeah, you definitely, you can't just like pip install anything and not think of it unless, depending on how you package these up.
So sure.
Sure.
That makes sense.
Of course they would include their own Python libraries, right?
Yeah.
And it's not a, yeah, it's not exactly small.
I think like photo core used to be like 60 megabytes,
but I think they've done some work to really get that down.
So,
yeah.
Yeah.
That's,
yeah,
that's not too bad.
I feel like photo core,
photo three,
those are constantly changing,
like constantly.
Yeah.
Well,
as,
as fast as AWS ad services that they'll probably keep changing quickly.
Yeah.
I feel like those are auto generated maybe just from looking at the way
the api looks at it you know the way they look written and so yeah yeah that's probably the case
yeah i know they do that with like their um uh their infrastructure as code cdk it's all like
typescript originally and then you have your python bindings for it and so right right right right i
mean it makes sense but in the same time when you see a change it doesn't necessarily mean oh there's
there's a new important aspect added.
It's probably just, I don't know,
people have actually pulled up the console for AWS,
but just the amount of services that are there.
And then each one of those has its own full API,
like a little bit of one of those has changed.
So we regenerated it,
but it might be for some part that you never, never call, right?
Like you might only work with S3 and it's only changed.
Yeah.
I don't know, EC2 stuff, right?
Right. Yep, exactly.
Yeah, indeed.
All right. Well, let's talk real quickly about some of the places where we could do serverless.
Right. Yeah. We've mentioned AWS Lambda.
Yeah. And I also maybe touch on just one million requests free per month.
Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah. Getting like jumping into AWS sometimes sounds scary, but they have a pretty generous free tier.
Definitely do your research on some of the security of this.
But yeah, you can, you know, a million requests free per month.
You probably have to look into that a little bit because it's, you know, you have your memory configurations too.
So there's probably, I don't know exactly how that works within their free tier, but you're charged like with Lambda at least.
It's your like invocation time and memory and also amount of requests.
So yeah.
I'm always confused when I look at that and go, okay.
all of those variables, is that a lot or a little?
I know it's a lot, but it's hard for me to conceptualize.
Like, well, I used a little more memory than I thought.
So it costs like, wait a minute.
How do I know how much memory I use?
You know, like, yeah.
What does it mean in practice?
Yeah, it's built by how you configure it too.
So if you say I need a Lambda with 10 gigs of memory,
you're being built at that like 10 gigabyte price threshold.
So there is a really, really cool tool called power to AWS Lambda power tuner.
So yeah, what that'll do is you can, it creates a state machine in AWS.
Yeah, I think I did send you a link to that one.
So the power tuner will create a state machine that invocates your Lambda with several
different memory configurations.
And you can say, I want either the best cost optimized version or the best performance optimized version.
So and that'll tell you, like, it'll say, OK, yeah, you're best with a Lambda configured at, you know, 256 megabytes, you know, for memory.
So sorry. Yeah, for the link, it's this is power tools.
This is a different. Yeah, maybe I didn't send you the power tuner.
I should, okay.
It sounds, it's news to me.
Okay, sorry.
Yeah.
And they have similar names.
There's only so many ways to describe stuff.
Right.
Yeah.
Okay.
They have it right in their hand up.
Yep.
And it is an open source package.
So there's probably a GitHub link in there, but yeah.
And this will tell you like the best way to optimize your, your Lambda function, at least
as far as memory is concerned.
So yeah, really good tool.
gives you a visualization, gives you a graph that will say like, okay, here's kind of where cost and
performance meet. And so, yeah, it's really excellent for figuring that out. Yeah, at least
in AWS land. I don't know if some of the other cloud providers have something similar to this,
but yeah, it's definitely a really helpful tool. Sure. Yeah. Like I said, I'm confused and I've
been doing cloud stuff for a long time when I look at it. Yeah. So, well, there's some interesting
things here. So like you can actually have a Lambda invocation that costs less with a higher
memory configuration because it'll run faster. So you're, I think Lambda bills like by the
millisecond now. So you can actually, because it runs faster, it can be cheaper to run. So.
Well, that explains all the rust that's been getting written.
Yeah, yeah.
There's a real number behind this.
I mean, you need to go faster, right?
Okay.
So, you know, I think maybe AWS Lambda
is one of the very first ones as well
to come on with this concept of serverless.
Yeah, I don't know for sure, but it probably is.
And then, yeah, your other big cloud providers have them.
And now you're actually even seeing them come up with a lot of,
like Vercel has some type of serverless function.
I don't know what they're using behind it,
but it's almost like they just put a nicer UI around AWS Lambda
or whichever cloud provider that's potentially backing this up.
But yeah.
It may well be that.
They're just reselling their flavor of somebody else's cloud, yeah.
Yeah, it could be because, yeah, Vercel,
obviously they have a really nice suite of products
with a good UI, very usable.
- Okay, so Vercel, some of them people can try.
And then we've got the two other hyperscale clouds,
I guess you call them.
Google Cloud has serverless, right?
- Yep.
- Okay, so.
- I'm not sure which ones,
they might just be called Cloud Functions.
Yeah, Azure also has-
- They got Cloud Run and Cloud Functions.
I have no idea what the difference is there.
Yep. And yeah, Azure also has a serverless product.
And I'd imagine there's probably like even more that we're not aware of.
But yeah, it's kind of nice to not think about setting up servers for something.
Something I think maybe, is it fast?
Yeah, function as a service.
Let's see.
But if we search for F-A-A-S instead of pass or IaaS, right?
There's got Almeda, Intel.
I saw that IBM had some.
Oh, there's also the, we've got DigitalOcean.
I'm a big fan of DigitalOcean
because I feel like their pricing is really fair
and they've got good documentation and stuff.
So they've got functionless, sorry,
serverless functions that you can, I don't use these.
Yeah, I haven't used these either, but yeah.
and yeah as far as cost like for especially for like small like personal projects and things where
you don't need to have a server on all the time they're yeah pretty uh pretty nice if you have
yeah a website that you need something server side where you got to have some python but you don't
need a server going all the time yeah it's okay like maybe i have a static site but then i want
this one thing to happen if somebody clicks a button something like yeah yeah absolutely yep
You could be completely static, but have something that is, yeah, yeah, that one function call that you do need.
Yeah, exactly.
And then you also pointed out that Cloudflare has some form of serverless.
Yeah, and I haven't used these either.
But yeah, I do know that they have some type of, you know, functions as a service as well.
So I don't know what frameworks for languages they let you write them in there.
I use bunny.net for my CDN.
It's just absolutely awesome platform.
I really, really love it.
And one of the things that they've started offering,
if I can get this stupid,
completely useless cookie banner to go away,
is they've offered what they call
edge compute.
Oh, yeah.
Okay.
What you would do,
I don't know where to find it,
somewhere maybe.
basically the CDN has 115, 120 points of presence
all over the world where, you know,
this one's close to Brazil,
this one's close to Australia, whatever.
But you can actually run serverless functions
on those things.
So you deploy them.
So the code actually executes in 115 locations.
Yes, yeah.
Probably Cloudflare or something like that as well,
but I don't know.
Yeah, AWS has,
they have like Lambda at edge at the edge.
So that's kind of goes hand in hand with their like CDN cloud out front,
I believe.
Yeah.
So they have something similar like that,
where you have a Lambda that's going to be,
you know,
perform it because it's distributed across their CDNs.
Yeah.
CDNs.
That's a whole nother world.
They're getting really advanced.
Yeah.
So we won't,
maybe that's a different show.
it's not a show today but it's just the idea of like you distribute the compute on the cdn
is pretty nice the drawback is it's just javascript which is okay but it's it's not the same as right
yes yeah i wonder if you could do high script oh yeah that's an interesting thought yeah yeah we're
getting closer and closer to python in the browser so yeah yeah my javascript includes this little
little bit of WebAssembly and i don't like semicolons but go ahead and run it anyway
yeah out in the audience it looks like um cloudflare probably does support python which is okay yeah
yeah there's there's so many options out there for for serverless functions that are yeah really
especially if you're already in you know if you're maybe deploying you know some static stuff over
cloudflare cloudflare oversell yeah it's sometimes nice just to be all all in on one uh one
service yeah yeah it really is let's talk about using choosing serverless over other things right
you've actually laid out two really good examples or maybe three even with the static site example
but you know i've got bursts of activity yeah yeah i'm really focused on but really really
low incredibly incredibly low usage other times right yeah yeah you think of like yeah your
your black friday traffic right like you to to not have to think of like how many servers to be
provisioned for something like that or if you don't know uh i think there's probably some like
uh well i actually know there's been like some pretty popular articles about people like
leaving the cloud uh and and yeah like if you know your scale and you know um you know exactly
what you need. Yeah. You, you probably can save money by just having your, your own infrastructure
set up or, but yeah, if you don't know, or it's very like spiky you don't need to have a server
that's consuming a lot of power running, you know, 24 hours a day, you can just invoke a function as
you need so yeah there's a super interesting series by david heinemeyner hansen of ruby on
rails fame and from base camp about how base camp has left the cloud and how they're saving
seven million dollars and getting better performance over five years yeah yeah that's
that's a big investment right they bought right six hundred thousand dollars for hardware right
Yeah. Yeah. Only so many people can do that. Right. And you, you know,
you got to have that running somewhere that, you know, with,
with backup power and yeah. Yeah.
So what they ended up doing for this one is they went with some service called
Deft. Okay. Hosting, which is like white glove,
white. So white labeled is the word I'm looking for,
where it just looks like it's your hardware, but they put it.
Sure. Yeah. They get data center and there's,
you know, they'll have the hardware shipped to them and somebody will just come out and
install it into racks and go, here's your IP. Like a virtual VM or a VM in a cloud,
but it takes three weeks to boot. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Which is kind of the opposite. It's almost,
I mean, I'm kind of diving into it because it's almost the exact opposite of the serverless
benefits, right? This is insane stability. I have this thing for five years.
Yeah. 4,000 CPUs we've installed and we're using them for the next five years rather than
how many milliseconds am I going to run this code for? Right. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's
definitely the far opposite. And so, yeah, you kind of, you know, maybe serverless isn't
for every use case, but it's definitely a nice like tool to have in the toolbox. And yeah,
definitely even working in serverless like if you're yeah eventually you're gonna need like
maybe to interact with the database that's got to be on all the time you know it's yeah there's
a lot of uh it's a good tool but it's definitely not the uh one size fits all solution so yeah
let's talk databases in a second but for you know when does it make sense to say we're gonna put this
like if let's suppose i have an api right that's a pretty api is a real similar equivalent to
what a serverless thing is.
Like, I'm going to call this API,
things are going to happen.
I'm going to call this function,
the thing's going to happen.
Let's suppose I have an API
and it has eight endpoints.
It's written a FastAPI or whatever it is.
It might make sense to have that as serverless, right?
You don't want to run a server
and all that kind of thing.
But what if I have an API with 200 endpoints?
Like, where is the point where like,
there are so many little serverless things,
I don't even know where to look.
They're everywhere.
Which version is this one?
You know what I mean?
Like where, where's that trade-off and how do, you know, you and the people you work with think about that?
Yeah, I guess that's a, a good, good question.
I mean, as you start like, you know, getting into these like microservices, how small do you want to break these up?
And so there, there, there is some different thoughts on that.
Even like a Lambda function, for instance, if you put this behind an API, you can use a single Lambda function for your entire REST API, even if it is 200 endpoints.
Okay.
So you put the whole app there, and then when a request comes in, it routes to whatever part of your app.
Theoretically, yeah.
Yeah, so there's a package called Power Tools for AWS Power Tools.
That's the one I tried to pull up.
Yeah, I know the similar name.
Yeah, so they have a really good event resolver.
So you can actually, it almost looks like Flask
or some of the other Python web frameworks.
And so you kind of have this resolver,
whether it's API Gateway and AWS are different.
they have a few different options for the API itself.
But yeah,
in theory you could have your entire API behind a single Lambda function,
but then that's probably not optimal.
Right.
So you're that's where you have to figure out how to break that up.
And so,
yeah,
they do like that same,
the decorators,
you know,
app dot post or yeah.
Yeah.
and your endpoints and you can do the, with the, have them have variables in there where maybe you
have like ID as your lookup and it can, you know, slash user slash ID is going to find your
find, you know, a single user. So in their documentation, they actually address this a
little bit. Like, do you want to do, they call it either like a micro function pattern where
maybe every single endpoint has its own Lambda function.
But yeah, that's a lot of overhead to maintain.
If you had, like you said, 200 endpoints,
you have 200 Lambdas.
You gotta upgrade them all at the same time
so they have the right data models and all that.
Yeah, that's not really.
So yeah, so there's definitely some,
even conflicting views on this.
How micro do you wanna go?
And so I was able to go to AWS reInvent in November and, and they actually kind of pitched this, this hybrid, maybe like if you take your like CRUD operations, right, and, and maybe you have your create, update and delete all on one Lambda that's with its configuration for those, but your read is on another Lambda.
So maybe your CRUD operations, they all interact with a relational database, but your reader just does like reads from a Dynamo database where you kind of sync that data up.
And so you could have your permissions kind of separated for each of those Lambda functions.
And, you know, people reading from an API don't always need the same permissions as, you know, updating, deleting.
And so, so yeah, there's a lot of different ways to break that up and how, how micro do you go with this? Definitely.
How micro can you go?
Yeah.
Cause it sounds to me like if you have many, many of them, then all of a sudden you're back to like, wait, I did this because I didn't want to be in DevOps and now I'm a different kind of DevOps.
Yeah, yeah. So yeah, that Python, that package, the power tools is, is does a lot of like heavy lifting for you. At PyCon, there was a talk on serverless that they, the way they described the power tools package was it, they said it like codified your, your serverless best practices. And, and it's really true. They give a lot, there's like so many different tools in there.
There's a, a logger, like a structured logger that works really well with Lambda and you, you don't even have to use like the AWS login services.
If you want to use like, you know, data dog or, or Splunk or something else, you, it's just a structured logger and how you aggregate them is like up to you and you can even customize how you format them.
But it's works really well with Lambda.
Yeah, you probably could actually capture exceptions and stuff with something like Sentry even, right?
Oh, yeah.
Python code, there's no reason you couldn't.
Right, exactly.
Yeah.
Yeah, some of that comes into, you know, packaging up those libraries for that.
You know, you do have to think of some of that stuff.
But like Datadog.
Yeah.
Datadog, for instance, they provide something called like a Lambda layer or a Lambda extension,
which is another way to package code up that just makes it a little bit easier.
So yeah, there's a lot of different ways to attack some of these problems.
A lot of that stuff, even though they have nice libraries for them,
it's really just calling a HTTP endpoint and you could go,
okay, we need something really light.
I don't know if request is already included,
but there's got to be some kind of HTTP thing already included.
We're just going to directly call it, not calling all these packages.
Yeah.
Yep.
yeah this code looks nice this uh this power tools code it looks like well written python code it's
they they do some really amazing stuff and they they bring in uh pydantic too so um yeah like
uh being mostly in serverless i i've never really gotten to use like fast api right and
leverage pydantic as much but with uh power tools you really can so so they'll package up
uh, Pydantic for you. And so you can actually, yeah, you can have Pydantic models for,
uh, you know, validation on these. It's like a Lambda function, for instance, it always receives
an event. There's always like two arguments to the func to the handler function. It's event and
context. And like event is always a, it's a, a dictionary in Python. And so they,
they can always look different and so um yeah yeah so because the event yeah uh so if you look in the
the power tools GitHub their their tests they have like uh okay here's what a an event from
api gateway proxy event dot json or whatever right yes yeah so they have um yeah examples
Yes. Yeah. So like you don't want to parse that out by by yourself. you know, so they they have
uh, pydantic models or they might actually just be python data classes, but uh that you can uh
You can say like okay, yeah, this function is going to be for yeah an api gateway proxy event or it's going to be
An s3 event or whatever it is, you know, there's there's so many different ways to receive events
from different aws services so so yeah power tools kind of gives you some nice validation and
yeah you might just say like okay yeah the body of this event even though i i don't care about all
this other stuff um that they include the path headers um queer string parameters but i just need
like the body of this so you just say okay event dot body and you can even use you can validate
that further, the event body is going to be a Pydantic model that you created.
So yeah, there's a lot of different pieces in here.
If I was working on this and it didn't already have Pydantic models, I would take this and
go to JSON Pydantic.
Oh, I didn't even know this existed.
That's right.
Okay.
Boom.
Put that right in there.
And boom, there you go.
It parses it onto a nested tree, object tree of the model.
Very nice.
They already give it to you.
they already give it to you yeah yeah just take what they give you but yeah those specific events
might be data classes instead of pydantic um just because you don't that way you don't have to
package pydantic up in your lambda but uh yeah if you're already um figuring out a way to package
power tools you're you're you're close enough that you probably just include pydantic too but
yeah yeah it's and they also uh i think they just added this feature where it'll actually generate
open API schema for you.
I think, yeah, FastAPI does that as well, right?
So, yeah.
So that's something you can leverage power tools
to do now as well.
Oh, excellent.
And then you can actually take the open API schema
and generate a Python client board on top of that,
I think.
Yeah, yeah.
So you just, it's robots all the way down.
Right, yeah.
Automated turtles all the way down.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I haven't used those open API generated clients very much.
I was always like skeptical of them, but yeah.
They just feel heartless and, you know, soulless, I guess is the word it looks for.
And he's just like, okay, here's another star org, star, star KW orgs thing where it's like,
couldn't you just like write it, take some reasonable defaults and give me some keyword
arguments, you know, just like, that's how I feel.
But if it's better than nothing, you know, it's better than nothing.
Right.
Yeah.
So, but yeah, you can see like Power Tools,
they took a lot of influence from FastAPI.
And-
It does seem like it, yeah, for sure.
Yeah, yeah.
So it's definitely really powerful
and you get some of those same benefits.
Yeah, this is new to me.
It looks quite nice.
So another comment by Kim is,
tended to use serverless functions
for either things that run briefly,
like once a month on a schedule
or the code that processes stuff coming in
on an AWS SQS, simple queuing service,
queue of unknown schedule.
So maybe that's an interesting segue into
how do you call your serverless code?
Yeah, yeah.
So as we kind of touched on,
there's a lot of different ways from like,
you know, AWS, for instance, to do it.
So yeah, like AWS Lambda has like Lambda function URLs,
but I haven't used those as much.
But if you just look at like the different options and like power tools, for instance, you can have a load balancer that's going to where you set the endpoint to invoke a Lambda.
You can have API Gateway, which is another service they have.
So there's a lot of different ways.
Yeah, SQS.
So that's kind of almost getting into like a way of like streaming or an asynchronous way of processing data.
So yeah, maybe in AWS, you're using a queue, right?
That's filling up and you say like, okay, yeah, every time this queue is at this size
or this timeframe, invoke this Lambda and process all these messages.
So there's a lot of different ways to invoke a Lambda function.
So if it's, I mean, really as simple as you can invoke them, like from the AWS CLI or
but yeah most people are probably have some kind of api around it yeah yeah almost make them look
like just http endpoints right yeah yeah mark out there says not heard talk of ecs i don't think but
i've been running web services using fargate serverless tasks on ecs for years now are you
I haven't done it.
Yeah, I'm like vaguely familiar with it.
But yeah, this is like a serverless compute for containers.
So I haven't used this personally.
But yeah, very like similar concept where it kind of scales up for you.
And yeah, you don't have to have things running all the time.
But yeah, it can be dockerized applications.
In fact, the company I work for now, they do this with their Ruby on Rails applications.
They Dockerize them and run with Fargate.
Creating Docker containers of these things, the less familiar you are with running that tech stack, the better it is in Docker.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
I could run straight Python, but if it's Ruby on Rails or PHP, maybe it's going into a container.
That would make me feel a little bit better about it.
Yeah, especially if you're in that workflow of like handing something over to a DevOps team, right?
Like you can say like, here's an image or a container or Docker file that, you know, that will work for you.
You know, that's maybe a little bit easier than trying to explain how to set up an environment or something.
So, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Fargate's a really good serverless option, too.
Excellent.
What about performance?
you talked about having a whole API apps,
like FastAPI or Flask or whatever.
The startup of those apps can be somewhat,
can be non-trivial, basically.
And so then on the other side,
we've got databases and stuff.
And one of the bits of magic of databases
is the connection pooling that happens, right?
So the first connection might take 500 milliseconds,
but the next one takes one
because it's already open effectively, right?
Yeah, yeah.
That's definitely something you really have to take into consideration is like how, how much you can do.
That's where some, some of that like observability, some of like the tracing that you can do and profiling is, is really powerful.
Yeah.
AWS Lambda, for instance, they have, they have something called cold starts.
So like, yeah, so the first time like a Lambda gets invoked, or maybe you have, you know, 10 Lambdas that get called at the same time, that's going to, you know, invoke 10 separate Lambda functions.
So that's like, great for the scale, right? That's really nice. But on a cold start, it's usually a little bit slower invocation because it has to initialize like, I think what's happening, you know, behind the scenes is they're like,
they're moving your code over that's going to get executed and uh anything that happens like outside
of your handler function so importing libraries uh sometimes you're establishing a database
connection uh maybe you're you know loading some environment variables or are some you know secrets
and so um yeah there's definitely uh performance is something to consider um i yeah uh that's
probably you you mentioned rust uh yeah there's probably some more performant like run times for
some of these serverless functions so yeah uh i've even heard some people say okay for for like
client facing things we're we're not going to use serverless like we just want that performance so
so that cold start definitely can um that can have an impact on you yeah yeah on both ends
Yeah.
Like the app start, but also the service, the database stuff with like the connection.
Right.
Yeah.
So yeah, relational databases too.
That's an interesting thing with.
Yeah.
What do you guys do?
You mentioned Dynamo already.
Yeah.
So Dynamo really performant for a lot of connections, right?
But so Dynamo is a serverless database that can scale.
You can query it over and over.
And that's not going to, it doesn't reuse a connection in the same way that like a SQL database would.
So that's an excellent option.
But if you do have to connect to a relational database and you have a lot of invocations, you can use a proxy if you're all in on AWS.
And so again, sorry for this is really AWS heavy, but but if you're using their like relational database service RDS
You can use RDS proxy which will use like a pool of connections for your lambda function
So that can yeah that can give you a lot of
performance or
At least you won't be
You know running out of connections to your database. So
Another thing too is just how you structure that connection. So
mentioned cold lambdas you obviously have warm lambdas too so uh a lambda has its its handler
function and so anything outside of the handler function can get reused on a on a on a warm lambda
so you can establish the connection to a database and it'll get reused on every invocation that it
that it can that's cool do you have to do anything explicit to make it do that or is that just um it
just has to be outside of that handler function so um you know kind of at your your top level of
your file.
Yeah.
Excellent.
It makes me think almost one thing you would consider is profiling the import statement
almost, right?
Yeah.
That's what we normally do, but there's a library called Import Profiler that actually
lets you time how long different things take to import.
It could take a while, especially if you come not from a native Python way of thinking in
like C# or C++ or something you say hash include or using such and such, like
that's a compiler type thing that really has no cost, but there's code execution. And when you
import something in Python and some of these can take a while, right? Yes. Yeah. So there's a lot
of tools for that. There's some, I think even maybe specific for Lambda. I know like Datadog
has a profiler that gives you like this. I forget what the graphic is called, like a flame
A flame graph, yeah. That'll give you a flame graph and show, okay, yeah, it took this long to make your database connection, this long to import Pydantic, and it took this long to make a call to DynamoDB.
So you actually kind of break that up. AWS has X-Ray, I think, which does something similar too. So yeah, it's definitely something to consider.
Another just what you're packaging is definitely something to to watch for.
And so I mentioned, yeah, I mentioned using pants to package Lambdas and they they do.
Hopefully I don't butcher how this works behind the scenes, but they're using they're using Rust and they'll actually kind of like infer your dependencies for you.
And so they have an integration with AWS Lambda.
They also have it for Google Cloud Functions.
So yeah, it'll go through.
You say, here's my AWS Lambda function.
This is the file for it and the function that needs to be called.
And it's going to create a zip file for you that has your Lambda code in it.
And it's going to find all those dependencies you need.
So it'll actually, you know, by default, it's going to include like, you know, Bodo that you need. If you're using Bodo, it'll, if you're going to use, you know, PyMySQL or whatever library, it's going to pull all those in and zip that up for you.
And so if you just like open up that zip and you see, and especially if you're sharing
code across your code base, maybe you have a shared function to, to make some of these
database connections or calls.
Like, you, you see everything that's going to go in there.
And so, yeah.
And so how, how like pants does it is it's, it's file-based.
So, sometimes just for like ease of imports, you might throw a lot of stuff in like your,
your init.py file and say like, okay, yeah, from, you know, you add all kind of bubble up all your
things that you want to import in there. Well, if one of those imports is also using
OpenCV, and you don't need that, then pants is going to say like, oh, he's importing this. And
because it's file based, now this Lambda needs OpenCV, which is a, you know, massive package
to uh it's going to impact your your performance especially in those cold starts because that
that code has to be moved over so yeah that's pretty interesting so kind of an alternative
to saying here's my requirements or my pyproject.toml lock file whatever that just lists everything the
entire program might use this could say you're going to import this function and to do that it
imports these things which import those things and then and then it just says okay that means
here's what you need right right yeah yeah it's definitely one of like the best ways that i found
to to package up uh lambda functions i think some of the other tooling might do some of this too but
yeah a lot of times it uh it would require like requirements.txt but if you have like a large
code base too where maybe you do have this shared you know module for uh that you know maybe
you have you know 30 different lambda functions that are all going to use some kind of helper
function. It's just going to go and like grab that. And it doesn't have to be like pip installable
pants is smart enough to just be like, okay, it needs this code. And so, but yeah,
you definitely be careful. Yeah. Yeah. And then there's so many other cool things that,
that pants is doing that, you know, they have some, really nice stuff for testing and,
uh, linting and formatting. And it's, yeah, there's a lot of really good stuff that they're
doing. So yeah, I had Benji on the show to talk about pants. That was, that was fun. Yeah. So let
me go back to this picture. Is this the picture? I have a lot of things open on my screen now.
There. So on my server setup that I described, which is a bunch of Docker containers running on
one big machine, I can go in there and I can say, tail this log and see all the traffic to all the
different containers. I can tell another log and just see like the login log book, log guru,
whatever output of that, or just web track. Like there's different ways to just go. I'm just going
to sit back and look at it for a minute and make sure it's chilling. Right. If everything's so
transient, not so easy in the same way. So what do you do? Yeah. So yeah, power tools does,
they have their, their structured logger that helps a lot, but yeah, you have to kind of like
aggregate these logs somewhere, right? Because yeah, you can't, you know, a Lambda function,
you can't like SSH into, right? So yeah, you can't, it's running too long. Yeah, yeah. So yeah, you,
you need to have some way to aggregate these. So like AWS has CloudWatch where that will like by
default kind of log all of your standard out. So even like a print statement would go to
CloudWatch just by default. But you probably want to structure these better with most likely in
JSON format, just most tooling around those is going to help you. So yeah, the PowerTools
structured logger is really good. And you can have a single log statement, but you can append
different keys to it. And, it's, it's pretty powerful. especially cause you,
you don't want to like, I think like, so if you just like printed something in a Lambda
function, for instance, that's going to be like a different row on each of your, like, by like
the default cloud watch, like it'll be, I, how it breaks it up is really odd unless you have some
kind of structure to them. Okay. So, yeah, so definitely something to, to consider. Um,
something else you can do is, yeah, there's, there's metrics you can do. So like how it works
with like cloud watch, they have a specific format. And if you use that format, you can,
it'll automatically pull that in as a metric. And like data dog has something similar where you can
actually kind of like go in there, you can look at your logs and say, like, find a value and be
Like I want this to be a metric now.
And so that's really powerful.
Oh, the metric sounds cool.
So I see logging and racing.
What's the difference between those things?
Like to me, tracing is a level,
just a high level of logging.
Yeah, tracing.
And hopefully I do the justice differentiating too.
I feel like tracing does have a lot more
to do with your performance
or maybe even closer to like,
tracking some of these metrics, right?
I've used the Datadog Tracer a lot
and I've used the AWS X-Ray,
they're tracing utility a little bit too.
And so those will show you.
So maybe you are reaching out to a database,
writing to S3.
Almost like an APM application performance monitoring
where it says you spent this much time in a SQL query
time in
identic serialization, whereas
the login would say a user
has been sent a message. Right,
exactly. Yeah.
Tracing definitely is probably more around your
performance and things like that.
It's kind of insane that they can
do that. You see
it in the Django debug toolbar
and the Pyramid debug toolbar, but they'll be like,
here's your code and here's all your SQL queries
and here's how long they took. And it's like, wow,
that thing is reaching deep down in there.
The Datadog
is very interesting because it just knows
that this is a SQL connection.
And it tells you, oh, OK, this SQL connection took this long.
And it was like, I didn't tell it to even trace that.
It just like it knows really well.
Yeah.
One thing to know a SQL connections open is another to say,
and here's what it sent over SSL, by the way.
How did you get in there?
Yeah, yeah.
It's in process, so it can do a lot.
It is impressive to see those things that work.
So that's probably what the tracing is about, right?
Yes.
Yeah.
Definitely.
Probably more around performance.
You can put some different things in tracing too.
Like I've, I've used it to say, like we talked about those like database connections to say
like, oh yeah, this is a, this is reusing a connection here.
Cause I was, I was trying to like debug some stuff on, am I creating a connection too many
times?
So I don't want to be, so yeah, you can, you can put some other useful things in tracing
as well.
Yeah.
And pat out in the audience.
Oops.
move around when you're using many microservices,
like a single execution involves many services, basically.
It's hard to follow the logs between the services and tracing helps tie that
together.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's for sure.
All right.
Let's close this out, Tony,
with one more thing that I'm not sure how constructive it can be.
There probably is some ways, but testing.
Yeah.
That's definitely.
If you could set up your own Lambda cluster, you might just run that for yourself, right?
So yeah, I didn't like this, right?
Yeah.
To some extent you can write like, like there's, there's a Lambda Docker image that you could
run locally and you can do that.
But if, if your Lambda is reaching out to DynamoDB, I guess there's, there's technically
a DynamoDB container as well.
Like, like you could, it's a lot of overhead to set this up, but rather than just doing
like, you know, flask start or, you know, whatever the command is to like spin up a flask.
I pressed the go button in my IDE and now it's.
Yeah.
So that's definitely, and there's more and more tooling coming out, you know, that's coming
out for this kind of stuff.
But if you can like unit test, there's no reason you can't just like, you know, run unit
tests locally.
But when you start getting into the integration test, you're probably getting to the point where maybe you just deploy to actual services.
And, you know, it's always tradeoffs, right?
Like there's costs associated with it.
There's the overhead of like, OK, how can I deploy to an isolated environment?
But maybe it interacts with another microservice.
So, yeah, so there's definitely tradeoffs.
I could see that you might come up with like a QA environment, almost like a mirror image that doesn't share any data.
Yeah, it's sufficiently close.
But then you're running.
I mean, that's a pretty big commitment because you're running a whole replica of whatever you have.
Right.
Yeah.
And so, yeah, QA environments are great, but you might even want lower than QA.
You might want to have a dev or like a one place I worked at.
We would spin up an entire environment for every PR.
So you could actually, yeah, like when you created a PR, that environment got spun up and it ran your integration tests and system tests against that environment, which, you know, simulated your prod environment a little bit better than running locally on your machine.
So certainly a challenge to imagine that it is.
Yeah.
And there's always these like one-off things too, right?
Like you can't really simulate like that memory limitation of a Lambda locally, you know, as much as when you deploy it and things like that.
So, yeah.
Yeah.
That would be much, much harder.
Maybe you could run a Docker container and put a memory limit on it.
You know, that might work.
Yeah.
Yeah, maybe.
you're back into like more and more devops to avoid devops right yeah yeah so there it goes
but interesting all right well anything else you want to add to this conversation before we wrap it
up about out of time here yeah i guess um i don't know if i have it hopefully we covered enough uh
there's just a lot of yeah there's a lot of good resources the tooling that i've mentioned
like Power Tools and Pants, just amazing communities.
Like Power Tools has a Discord.
You can go on there and ask for help, and they're super helpful.
Pants has a Slack channel.
You can join their Slack and ask about things.
And so those two communities have been really good
and really helpful in this.
A lot of good talks that are available on YouTube too.
So just, yeah, there's definitely resources out there,
and a lot of people have fought this for a while.
So yeah, excellent.
You don't have to start from just create a function and start typing.
Yeah.
Cool.
All right.
Well, before you get out of here though, let's, let's get your recommendation for a PyPI package.
Something notable, something fun.
I probably, you know, we've talked a lot about it, but power tools is definitely one,
uh, that is like every day getting used for me.
So the, yeah, power tools for Lambda and Python, they actually support other, other, languages too.
So they have like the same functionality for like, you know, no JS, you know, for like TypeScript and.net.
And so, yeah, but this one definitely, leveraging power tools and, Pydantic together just really made like, serverless, a lot of fun to, to write.
So, yeah, definitely doing great things there.
excellent well i'll put all those things in the show notes and yeah it's been great to talk to you
thanks for sharing your journey down the yeah yeah yep thanks thanks for having me
you bet yeah enjoy chatting